Let's talk about the next model, parametric.
This is where we use parameters to help determine an estimate.
We also perform this early in the estimating process and so these
requirements can be a bit soft as before as well.
Developed by identifying the number of work units
and the duration per work unit.
So what's a work unit?
Well, it's really just something you can count.
For example, we can count lines of code,
we can count number of stored procedures,
number of screens, things like that.
So here's an example of common work units and estimates.
So for each screen or page maybe 28 hours, maybe we count up 100 screens.
Report layouts take 12 hours,
and maybe the sequel to gather the data for the report is 8 hours.
So maybe a report is 20 hours.
API, a lot of times we have to connect an Application Program Interface.
We must connect to different types of systems and maybe the average takes
40 hours to write the code to connect to other systems.
Maybe a web service takes 80 hours to do.
So, integration endpoints with third-party vendors,
maybe 25 hours to do something like that.
Now,
this is somewhat similar to historic and heuristic in that
there were items we're counting there as well.
So these are kind of a blend.
What is it that I can count?
Think about all the things you can count.
I can count screens or a report.
Think of all those things you can count.
Then, look at the history, have I implemented those before?
And look at the history, the actual hours from before.
Or if you haven't,
heuristically look at your own experiences of your team to see if you
can apply those hours to what you are counting.
So the parametric, historical, and heuristic are really kind of blended together.
Our next model is phased allocation.
This is when our project is carried out or performed in stages or phases,
also known as distribution estimating.
Uses project phase percentages to arrive at an estimate.
So, each phase helps predict the following phase or phases.
Can be used if enough information is known about even
just one of the phases potentially.
Typically though it'll be the first phase.
And again,
the other phases are estimated by extrapolating how much
time it took you to do the phase you're in,
with what you think those phase allocations are.
For example, each phase is allocated a percent of the expected total time.
Maybe the initiation or discovery phase,
you know the PDD phase, takes 10%, we think,
of overall projects.
We also think design and analysis phase is 20%.
Construction and development phase is %60, that's the biggie usually.
Deploy phase 10%.
So basically, if it took us 100 hours to do the discovery phase,
we might predict that the design phase would be 200 hours and the
construction and development phase would be 6 times the 100,
which would be 600 hours.
And the deploy phase would be 100 hours.
So again, if we think that's the general time,
again,
we can use historical data to maybe predict the time we've used in these phases. So here's, just again, another approach to making estimates.